Hello my friends and welcome to this new section where you will finally learn on how to evaluate your
regression models and mostly on how to select the best one.
All right so this is indeed a section that has been long awaited because indeed in this whole part two
of regression we built many machinery models and now most of you must have the question.
OK that's cool I have all these regression models in the toolkit but which one do I select which one
should I apply for my dataset.
And well I actually have some very good news for you.
We will give the answer to this exact question in this tutorial.
So I'm going to try to reveal everything in this same tutorials that you know this can be the ultimate
tutorial of regression where you finally learn on how to use your regression took it the right way on
your future data sets.
So what I will do in this tutorial is I will introduce you to this toolkit that I have just made and
which contains all the regression models we learned together into some very generic code templates by
very generic code templates.
I mean that you will be able to use these code templates on your future data set by having only one
or two things to change.
I made them as generic as possible so that they can be ready to deploy on your data sets and besides
each of them contains at the end of the implementation the evaluation tool you know allowing to evaluate
your model so that you can very easily and quickly compare the performance of each of them.
In other words you know in short thanks to this tool kit you will be able to select the best model for
your data set in a very short amount of time you know very very efficiently AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT
I'LL PROVE TO YOU.
YOU KNOW WHAT I'M GOING TO SHOW YOU IN DISTANCE oil.
We're going to take a real world data set you know with several features and lots of observations.
I will deploy each of the regression models of the toolkit on this dataset and you will see how quickly
and efficiently I managed to figure out the best model and that's actually the answer to the question
How should I select the best model.
And the simple answer is try all your models try all your morals and just select the best one having
the best performance results and that performance result is measured by of course the coefficient r
squared or adjusted or squared.
All right.
So there we go.
Let me introduce you to this tool kit and then let's proceed to the demo.
But first let's make sure everyone here is on the same page.
This is a new folder no different than the whole machine learning.
It is a folder containing 10 parts.
This is a new folder where you will get you know that regression tool kit containing all the regression
models.
And then when we tackle Part Three that classification tool kit with all the classification models and
mostly you know this is the model selection folder.
This is the folder you will want to use when you want to deploy either your regression models or your
classification models on your dataset in order to quickly and efficiently select the best one.
Why do we need to do this only for regression and classification and not the other branches of machine
learning.
Well that's because you will see that from port for each of the branch will contain only two machinery
models.
And for each of these branch out from Part Four you will see that it will be very clear which one to
choose.
I will tell you exactly which one you must choose.
But here for regression and classification Well we have many machinery models for each branch.
So you need this model selection folder in order to have this toolkit both for classification and regression
so that you can efficiently select your best machinery model.
All right.
So there we go.
Make sure to connect to that link that link was provided just before this tutorial in the article.
And now there we go.
Let's enter this regression for there for moral selection and as you see it contains are five regression
models that we studied in this part to you know multiple in our regression and I didn't include simple
in the regression of course because now we will work with a real world data set with therefore several
features then we have polynomial regression then support vector regression then decisions regression
and of course random forest regression.
And as I told you I made each of these implementations very generic so that you can deploy them on your
future data set by having only one or two things to change assuming of course that your data set has
a CSB format and contains all the features in the first columns and the dependent variable in the last
column.
That's really the essential condition.
And then of course here I chose the dataset without missing values or categorical data.
That's because I trust you will know how to handle this.
Thanks to your data pricing tool kit.
So this data set is quite classic but yet real world because can see it contains several features and
many many observations actually almost 10000 observations if we scroll down.
Yes almost 10000.
All right.
With as you can see only numerical values no categorical data in strings.
And once again no missing data.
And I chose such a data set so that you know we can make our code templates for each of our regression
models 100 percent generic so that you only have to change the name of the dataset.
All right.
And now what is this data set about.
Well that's a classic dataset from actually the UCI machinery in repertory which I encourage you to
have a look because indeed it is a Web site that contains a lot of datasets on which you can practice.
And this one is actually called combined cycle power plant and it consists of trying to predict this
dependent variable which is actually an energy output.
And don't worry you don't have to understand how energy works or how the physics of this dataset works.
The only thing that you need to understand is that we want to predict this depend very well which turns
out to be an energy output.
And we are predicting this dependent variable with these four features here which are first the engine
temperature.
Second the exhaust vacuum.
Third the ambient pressure.
And fourth the relative humidity.
All right so that's that's only what matters here.
You have to see it as you know a general dataset where you have several features that you're going to
use to predict that dependent variable.
And as you can see as a condition you know in order to deploy or regression models on this data set
in the future data you'll be working on is to have in the first columns the features and in the last
column the dependent variable.
All right.
That's all that matters.
If you have a dataset like that which has no missing data and no categorical data well you can deploy
each and every single one of these regression models by just having to change the name of your dataset.
And if your dataset has missing data or categorical data you just have to go to your data processing
toolkit to take care of this and then you can deploy these models.
All right.
So now time for the demo.
I'm going to show you how we're going to quickly and efficiently plug and play each of these regression
templates.
By only having to change the name of the dataset and then I'll show you how we will quickly identify
and select the best regression more for this particular dataset.
All right.
Let's do this.
So our first step here will be to create a copy of each of these files because these are all in read
only mode because you know this folder was shared to you so since all of you will access it you can
of course not modify it directly but in order to modify it you just need to create a copy in your drive
and to do this well we can just do a right click here and then make a copy.
So we're going to do this for each of the regression models here.
Let's do this make a copy for multiple in our regression.
Then make a copy then running for his regression make a copy.
And finally support vector regression.
And there we go.
All right good.
So we made a copy of each of these regression models and the copies should be either on your main drive
or in this cool up notebooks folder.
And well as you can see they are on my main drive.
So you will actually very easily find them.
And now what we're going to do is open each of these files in order to proceed with the demo.
All right.
So I opened first multiple linear regression.
Then I'm going to open polynomial regression.
You know in the same order as the one we used to build our regression models then support vector regression
once again you can either open them with Google collaboratively or and notebook or even spider and eye
contact because I also gave you the folder containing all these codes in the data set right before this
tutorial in the Oracle.
So then let us open decision trees and finally.
Well random forest regression.
All right.
So actually let me put it like that.
You know the same order support vector decision tree and random forest.
All right.
So now we have all our regression models open.
I'm first going to show you the good templates one by one and then we will deploy them on the data set
and I'll show you how to quickly figure out which one is the best model.
All right.
So starting with multiple in our regression let's see the different steps.
So we start by importing the libraries.
Of course that's the first step of the data progressing phase.
Then we import the data set.
And as you can see I made it super generic meaning that the only thing that you have to change is actually
the name of your data set here.
That's why I specified in capital letters that you can't miss it enter the name of your data set here
and we will actually do that in a few minutes.
Then here you have nothing to change of course because this automatically selects all the columns except
the last one therefore your features and this automatically selects the last column meaning the dependent
variable.
All right then we split the dataset into the training set in a set of course here.
That's very important to do this because since we want to select the best model.
Well we need this to set in order to evaluate the performance of each of them in order to compare it
and select the best one.
So we have to do this step.
Absolutely.
Then once we have well the training set we will train our model on the training set.
Then we will predict the test results.
You know to have a look at the predictions and compare them to the real results in y test.
And then finally we will evaluate the model performance in here.
I don't want to scroll down now because we will discover together a bit later the code to evaluate a
regression model.
You know with the r squared coefficient.
All right.
So that's the code template for multiple linear regression.
And as I told you and as you see it is super generic because for any of your future dataset provided
that they have in the first columns the features and in the last column the dependent variable and also
provided that they don't have missing data or categorical data.
Well the only thing that you have to change within this code template is just to enter the name of your
data set here and that's it by just doing this you will be able to evaluate your model with a relevant
metric.
All right.
So now let's move on to the next code template pulling on your regression.
Well here.
That's the same.
You know the same data repricing phase with first endpoint libraries then importing the data sets where
you only have to enter the name of your dataset here and then splitting the data set into the training
set and test set then of course we train the polynomial regression will on the training set.
So that's exactly like what we did in this part to you know when we built it you recognize degree equals
for you know that's exactly the same code then we predict some test results just to compare our predictions
and the real results.
And finally we will evaluate the mall performance and I will reveal very soon how to do that.
Okay.
So that's for polynomial regression.
Once again very generic you just have to enter here the name of your data set and then this could template
is ready to be deployed.
All right then support vector regression.
So here that's the same.
First the data processing phase where we import the libraries then we import the data set but then remember
we have to reshape our dependent variable vector Y because we have to features kill it.
Right.
Because we're doing regression.
So the dependent variable vector has continuous numerical values and therefore as we are we need to
scale the dependent variable vector.
That's exactly the same as what we saw together when building that as our model.
Then I added this of course in order to split the dataset into the training set and test set so that
we can indeed evaluate the performance of the R and compare it to the other models.
Then of course we have features killing compulsory for that as we are with remember are two scalar is
one for the matrix of features and one for the dependent variable vector then we train of course as
your model on the training set you know this very well we did it together then we proceed to test results
just to compare and have an idea of how good are the predictions of new observations.
And finally we will evaluate the model performance with our squared no worries we'll get to that very
very soon.
So that's where the as we are then for Decision Tree regression well exactly the same you know the data
pricing phase first with no feature scaling right.
Remember we don't need feature scaling for decision trees.
So once again we only have to change the name of the dataset here then we split the data set into the
training center set then we trained sedentary regression model on the training set.
Exactly the same as we did in our implementation when we built it together.
Then we predict the test results.
In order to compare our predictions to the real results in my test and that's in order to have a first
idea of the performance and then of course we will evaluate the all performance with our squared.
And finally we have the exact same data repressing phase where we only have to enter the name of your
data set here and then we train the random force regression more on the training set with the exact
same implementation as how we did it together then we predict the test that results in order to get
a first idea of the performance.
And finally we evaluate the model performance.
All right.
So as I told you you have purely generic code templates which you can deploy for any of your future
data sets.
As long as they have first features and last.
The dependent variable.
And as long as they don't have missing data or categorical data in which case it's still fine you can
use your data repressing toolkit but there you go.
You have this code template and now I'm gonna show you how to evaluate your regression models using
the r squared coefficient.
All right so let's start with R squared.
You know that final sale in each of the implementations evaluating the model performance.
Let's see how we're going to do this.
Well as I also want to train you on how to be independent in machine learning.
Well we're gonna pretend once again that I actually have no idea on how to evaluate the more performance
of regression models and therefore that I have to go to the documentation online to figure out how to
do it.
All right I'm just training you to be independent and quickly find an information whenever you need
it.
So let's go through a new tab.
All right.
And then let's just type.
Because I'm gonna show you a trick actually.
Let's just type psych it.
Learn cycle here.
Just take it learn and then let's go to the first link and you will be on the welcoming page of psyche
learn which by the way looks super nice and then I'm going to show you something very interesting.
I'm going to show you the whole API of the psychic here in library.
You know the API is the whole library containing all the modules and inside all the functions and classes.
All right so these are all the modules starting from the base one and the one I actually want to show
you right now is the matrix module the matrix module which will find by scrolling down a bit scrolling
down a bit more until we find em should find it very quickly.
There we go.
Psychic learn metrics.
All right so as you might guess this is the module that contains all the metrics of machine learning
models which therefore include classification models which will see in part 3 and what we are interested
in.
Now the regression models and in the regression models here are the metrics.
Let's have a look.
While you have many of them you have the explained variance score the max error the mean absolute error
the means squared error the means squared look error you know you have many of them but the one we will
use now after it kills intuition lecturer is of course the r squared the r squared core which is of
course the coefficient of determination regressions core function.
Okay so there is not just the r squared but that's still defined the r squared is fine you will perfectly
be able to evaluate the performance and mostly compare the performances of your regression models to
select the best one.
So let's click this metric here and we will find well the name of the function which we will use.
There you go to measure the error squared coefficient for each of our different regression models here.
And that's exactly what you have at the end is less cell which I didn't want to reveal until now.
That's indeed R2 score function which allows to evaluate the model performance of your regression model
with the eyes squared coefficient of determination.
All right so you have the same in each regression models you know R2 score right or two score here as
well.
That's exactly the same code actually because you know I made this code templates 100 percent generic.
So there you go you have the R2 score function measuring the coefficient of determination meaning the
r squared.
And you know it's still in the assumption that I had no idea on how to implement the Ares credit score
well here what did I do.
I actually went to the examples and there you go I just took this line of code which clearly means that
we're measuring the r squared chord between you know the vector of real results and your vector of predictions.
So I just took this.
And then of course I took this before in order to import of course the R2 scored function from the metrics
module from cyclone.
And so that's why you know in each implementation that's exactly what you see here.
I import first artist core function from the Matrix module by second learn.
And then I call this artists called function on the white test which contains the real results.
You know the real values of the dependent variable in the test set and white bread containing the predictions
of the same observations in the test.
All right.
That's only what you would have to do in order to figure out how to you know evaluate the model performance
of regression models.
Right.
So that's why I really want you to have the reflex to look at the documentation and quickly find the
information you need.
All right.
And now my friends.
Time for the exciting step I'm talking of course about the demo.
So let's just take a quick little break and we'll start directly in the next tutorial.